##### Network Components

- Client: Device end-user accesses the network with, such as laptop, tablet, smartphone, tv, server, any terminal device etc
- Server: Provides resources to the rest of the rest of the network
  - Different servers provide different functions, such as an E-mail server, Web server, File server, Chat server, and Print server
  - Can be a dedicated server hardware/software or can be a device that is acting like a server for a particular function
- Hub: Receives information in one port and rebroadcasts it out to all the other ports
- Wireless Access Point(WAP): Device that allows wireless devices to connect into a wired network
  - Acts as a wireless hub
- Switch: Switches are smart version of Hub.
  - It learns what devices are on which switch ports.
  - Only forwards traffic received from a port to the destination port based on the device's MAC address.
- Router: Connects tow or more networks together.
  - Intelligently forwards traffic to and from a network based on its logical address(IP)
  - Routers use Internet Protocol(IP) address to determine routing of traffic.
- Media: Connects two devices or a device to a port.
  - Made from copper cable, fiber optic cable, or radio frequency waves(wifi)
- Wide Area Network (WAN) Link: Physically connects networks together.
  - Internet is just big series of WAN links.
  - Connects your internal(e.g. home network) network to the external network or the internet. 
  - WAN links such as: leased lines, DSL, Cable, Fiber Optic, Satellite, Cellular, Microwave, ...
  - Connects internal network to external networks, such as a SOHO(small office home office) network to Internet.

---
