##### OSI Model vs. TCP/IP Model

- These OSI model defines 7 different functions a Network must do.
- Following are the 7 layers of OSI Model:
  1. **7 - Application**: Make Application network aware. Usually the API(Application Programming Interface) that happens behind Application to make it Network Aware.
  2. **6 - Presentation**: Convert data that your Application can read.
  3. **5 - Session**: Actual connection happens between 2 systems at Session layer.
        - TCP connection between Web Server and Web Client
        - Sending Email
        - Sharing folder between 2 computers in a LAN
        - And it's the Session layer that defines how the connectivity works
  4. **4 - Transport**: Actual Data are big, and data travel through network are small chunks. 
        - So, assembling and disassembling of data or Packets
        - It also makes sure that the Receiver receives Packets in order 
  5. **3 - Network**: Place where logical addressing works. IP Address, Routers work at layer 3.
  6. **2 - Data Link**: Anything that works with MAC Addresses, works at the Data Link layer. Network Cards (NICs), Switches etc.
  7. **1 - Physical** : The actual physical connection.

---

- Following are the 4 layers of TCP/IP Model:
  1. **7 - Application**: Application, Presentation and Session layer of OSI
  2. **2 - Transport**: Does all the assembling and disassembling as well as establishing connection (TCP, UDP). (Transport and Session layer of OSI)
  3. **3 - Internet**: Anything related to logical addressing, router. (Network Layer of OSI)
  4. **4 - Network Interface**: All wired connection, NICs, Switches. (Network and DataLink layer of OSI) 